Monitoring systems are like a three-legged stool.
It's not very useful if you take one of the legs away.
Each leg plays an important part in realizing the system's full value.
The three legs are a data aggregator,
a data visualizer, and some time series data.
A data aggregator is a system that collects and group's data by type or data source.
One way to think about a data aggregator is like a database
with extra tooling to aid in data collection.
Data visualizer takes copious amounts of
seemingly unintelligible data from the data aggregator,
and produces useful charts and graphs that help
us understand what the data is trying to say.
Time series data is made up of historical data points indexed in time order.
Some examples include: blood-sugar levels checked at the top of every hour,
daily closing value of Microsoft stock,
monthly rainfall by city,
available disk space by the minute.
Another way I like to describe time series data is
anything with a timestamp and at least 10 data points.
Therefore, data collected from your monitoring system qualifies,
as long as you're saving new data with a timestamp at regular intervals.
Which time series data you collect is up to you.
How you collect it will have something to do with the aggregator you choose.